sbt-ctags4s
===========
### Warn

it's still experemental.

### Status
Currently works only if `sctags` used as CLI utility if SCALA_LIB and SCALA_HOME
enviroument variables configured according to `sctags` readme (see #1).

(Currently works only with Sbt 0.13x)

## About

It able generate ctags file (currently in emacs format (aka etags)) for your
project with tags for dependencies.
(TAGS file allow you to get `go to definition` functionality for Scala files at
text editors like emacs which has `ctags` support).

Tags file will be generated by patched version of [SCtags](https://github.com/strobe/sctags) (probably different
tags generations backends will be available later).

In compasion to `Exuberant Ctags` current backend has better undestanding of
`Scala` code specific and as result you will get much better failure rate at
`go to definition` attempts.


## Install

Just add following to your `./project/plugins.sbt` file:

    // libraryDependencies += "cc.evgeniy" %% "sctags" % "1.0.1" // this not required currently because of current classpath configuration issue see Warn section of readme
    addSbtPlugin("cc.evgeniy" % "sbt-ctags4s" % "0.1.1")
    
Because of #1 currently you have to install sctags as separate CLI utility and provide correct set up
for SCALA_HOME and SCALA_LIB.
    

## How it works - example
First update your dependencies:

    > ctagsDownload

Then select the dependency you wish to import for example `scala-library`:

    > ctagsAdd <tab>...
    > ctagsAdd org.scala-lang:scala-library...
    ... or ...
    > ctagsAdd org.scala-lang*
    ... or ...
    > ctagsAdd *

This will extract the `scala-library` source into `.lib-src/org.scala-lang.scala-library/` and run ctags over the whole project including the imported sources. Both Java and Scala libs can be added.

Now you can use ctags to navigate the `scala-library` source.

Make sure to add the following to your `.gitignore`

    .lib-src
    tags
    ctags

You can remove a library for your tags file with:

    > ctagsRemove <tab>...
    > ctagsRemove org.scala-lang...
    ... or ...
    > ctagsRemoveAll
    ... or ...
    > ctagsRemove *

## Tasks

    > help ctagsDownload
    > help ctagsAdd
    > help ctagsShowCurrent
    > help ctagsRemove
    > help ctagsRemoveAll


## Roadmap
- [] fix classpath setup issue #1
- [] sbt settings which allow choose result format (etags, ctags) and backend kind (ctags, SCTags etc.)
- [] sbt obsolete API reactor
- [] add Sbt 1x support (with crossbuilding to 0.13x)


# Credits

Currently it's just a mix of following projects:
- https://index.scala-lang.org/kalmanb/sbt-ctags
- https://github.com/luben/sctags


# License

Copyright 2017 Evgeniy Tokarev

Copyright (c) 2013 Kalman Bekesi

Copyright 2008 Geoff Reedy

Copyright 2015 Luben Karavelov

Published under the [Apache License 2.0](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apache_license).
